fix(mobile): removed iOS install content (#13836)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/install-configure/configure-android-gradle-android-studio.mdx

---
title:  Configure Android apps with Gradle and Android Studio
tags:
    - Mobile monitoring
    - New Relic Mobile Android
    - Install configure
translate:
    - jp
    - kr
metaDescription:
redirects:
    - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/install-configure/install-android-apps-gradle-android-studio/#4x-multidex
    - /docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/install-configure/install-android-apps-gradle-android-studio/#configuration
---

Once you've [installed](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/get-started/introduction-new-relic-mobile-android/#installation) New Relic's agent for Android applications, configuring your mobile app can help to improve performance, stability, and user engagement of your app. To configure mobile monitoring with Gradle and Android Studio follow along below.

## Configure with Gradle and Android Studio [#configuration]

> These procedures to configure your Android app with Gradle and Android Studio also appear on the **Get started** page in New Relic.

Author: ```suggestion
These procedures to configure your Android app with Gradle and Android Studio also appear in the "Add your DSL code" step of the Android guided [UI installation](https://onenr.io/02R5GVpaxQb).
```

> 1. Merge New Relic's mobile monitoring code in the **Gradle & Android Studio** tab to your `build.gradle` file.

Author: ```suggestion
1. In your project's top-level build.gradle file, merge or append the following code before the plugins are applied.
```

> 1. In your project's top-level build.gradle file, merge or append the following code before the plugins are applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In your project's top-level `build.gradle` file, merge or append the following code before the plugins are applied.
```

    <CollapserGroup>

>         <Collapser

Reviewer: In the collapsers, consider adding context before the code samples. What's the difference between using app-level vs. project-level configuration, and when would I configure one over the other?

        id="project-level"
        title="Project level build.gradle file:"
        >

>         In this example, AGENT_VERSION represents your agent version number. See the [agent release notes](/docs/release-notes/mobile-release-notes/android-release-notes), and use the latest version.

Author: ```suggestion
        Project-level configuration is used to configure the agent for all apps in a project. This includes setting the project token, enabling or disabling features, and setting thresholds for alerts. In this example, AGENT_VERSION represents your agent version number. See the [agent release notes](/docs/release-notes/mobile-release-notes/android-release-notes), and use the latest version.
```

        ```
        buildscript {
            repositories {
            mavenCentral()
            }

            dependencies {
            classpath "com.newrelic.agent.android:agent-gradle-plugin:<a href="/docs/release-notes/mobile-release-notes/android-release-notes">AGENT_VERSION</a>"
            }
        }
        ```
        </Collapser>

        <Collapser
        id="app-level"

>         title="App level build.gradle file:"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        title="App-level build.gradle file:"
```

        >

>         In this example, AGENT_VERSION represents your agent version number. See the [agent release notes](/docs/release-notes/mobile-release-notes/android-release-notes), and use the latest version.

Author: ```suggestion
        Use app-level configuration if you want to customize the settings for one specific app. In this example, AGENT_VERSION represents your agent version number. See the [agent release notes](/docs/release-notes/mobile-release-notes/android-release-notes), and use the latest version.
```

        ```
        repositories {
            mavenCentral()
        }

        apply plugin: 'android'
        apply plugin: 'newrelic'

        dependencies {
            implementation 'com.newrelic.agent.android:android-agent:<a href="/docs/release-notes/mobile-release-notes/android-release-notes">AGENT_VERSION</a>'
        }
        ```
        </Collapser>
    </CollapserGroup>

2. **(Optional)** For ProGuard or DexGuard: 

>     a. In your project’s root directory (`projectname/app`), add a `newrelic.properties` file with the following line:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    a. In your project’s root directory (`/projectname/app`), add a `newrelic.properties` file with the following line:
```

        ```
        com.newrelic.application_token=GENERATED_TOKEN
        ```
    b. Complete the configuration steps on [Configure ProGuard or DexGuard for Android apps](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/install-configure/configure-proguard-or-dexguard-android-apps). Then come back to this page and move on to the next step. 

> 3. Set app permissions: Ensure that your Android app requests `INTERNET` and `ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE` permissions by adding these lines to your `AndroidManifest.xml` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Set app permissions. Ensure that your Android app requests `INTERNET` and `ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE` permissions by adding these lines to your `AndroidManifest.xml` file:
```

    ```
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE" />
    ```

> 4. To start New Relic's mobile monitoring agent: In your **Default Activity** (as defined in your **Manifest**), import the `NewRelic` class:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Start our Android agent.  In your **Default Activity** (as defined in your **Manifest**), import the `NewRelic` class:
```

> 4. Start our Android agent.  In your **Default Activity** (as defined in your **Manifest**), import the `NewRelic` class:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Start our Android agent. In your **Default Activity** (as defined in your **Manifest**), import the `NewRelic` class:
```

    ```
    import com.newrelic.agent.android.NewRelic;
    ```

    <Callout variant="important">
        We do not support starting the mobile monitoring agent in other classes, as that can cause unexpected or unstable behavior.
    </Callout>

> 5. To initialize mobile monitoring: In the `onCreate()` method, add this call:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Initialize mobile monitoring. In the `onCreate()` method, add this call:
```

    ```
    NewRelic.withApplicationToken("GENERATED_TOKEN").start(this.getApplication());
    ```

> 6. Optional: Change the [logging level](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/api-guides/android-agent-configuration-feature-flags#logging).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. **(Optional)** Change the [logging level](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/api-guides/android-agent-configuration-feature-flags#logging).
```

> 7. To build and run your application: Clean your project, then run your app in an emulator or device to generate traffic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Build and run your application. Clean your project, then run your app in an emulator or device to generate traffic.
```

> 8. Wait a few minutes, then view data for your Android app from the [**Summary** page](/docs/mobile-monitoring/mobile-monitoring-ui/mobile-app-pages/mobile-apps-overview-page): Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Mobile > (select an app)**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Wait a few minutes, then view data for your Android app from the [**Summary** page](/docs/mobile-monitoring/mobile-monitoring-ui/mobile-app-pages/mobile-apps-overview-page). Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Mobile > (select an app)**.
```

If you have problems with your Android installation, or if you do not see data in the mobile monitoring UI, follow the [troubleshooting procedures](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/troubleshoot/no-data-appears-android).

<InstallFeedback />

> Read on to learn how to avoid the 64K reference limit by enabling multidex support for your Android app:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read on to learn how to avoid the 64K reference limit by enabling multidex support for your Android app.
```

When building each DEX file for a multidex app, the build tools perform complex decision making to determine which classes are needed in the primary DEX file so that your app can start successfully. If any class required during startup is not provided in the primary DEX file, then your app crashes with the error `java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError`.

If you see the `java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError` error, then you must [manually specify these additional classes as required](https://developer.android.com/studio/build/multidex.html#keep) in the primary DEX file:

1. Create a `proguard.multidex.config` file within the `/app` folder of your project. Update `mypackage` to reflect your package name.

    ```
    ####################
    # keep class names #
    ####################

    #Keep New Relic in the main dex
    -keep class com.newrelic.** { *; }
    -keep class com.mypackage.activities.** { *; }
    ```

> 2. Merge the following code into the app-level `build.gradle` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Merge the following code into your app-level `build.gradle` file:
```

    ```
    android { 
        defaultConfig{
            …
            multiDexKeepProguard file("proguard.multidex.config")
        }
    }
    ```

For more information, see the [Android Developers documentation](https://developer.android.com/studio/build/multidex.html#keep) on declaring classes required in the primary DEX file.

## New Relic Gradle Plugin configuration [#gradle_plugin_config]

> For details on how to configure the behavior of the mobile monitoring agent plugin during Gradle builds, see the [New Relic Gradle plugin](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/install-configure/configure-new-relic-gradle-plugin) extension guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For details on how to configure the behavior of the Android agent plugin during Gradle builds, see the [New Relic Gradle plugin extension guide](/docs/mobile-monitoring/new-relic-mobile-android/install-configure/configure-new-relic-gradle-plugin).
```
